The Panopticon ("all-seeing") was a prison. It was designed to allow round-the-clock surveillance of the inmates by their superintendent. 
Originated from Bentham
Foucalt


"As a work of architecture, the panopticon allows a watchman to observe occupants without the occupants knowing whether or not they are being watched. As a metaphor, the panopticon was commandeered in the latter half of the 20th century as a way to trace the surveillance tendencies of disciplinarian societies. Is it still a useful way to think about surveillance in an age of NSA and GCHQ?"


The scheme of the design is to allow all (pan-) inmates of an institution to be observed (-opticon) by a single watchman without the inmates being able to tell whether or not they are being watched. Although it is physically impossible for the single watchman to observe all the inmates' cells at once, the fact that the inmates cannot know when they are being watched means that they are motivated to act as though they are being watched at all times. 


"He describes the prisoner of a panopticon as being at the receiving end of asymmetrical surveillance: “He is seen, but he does not see; he is an object of information, never a subject in communication.”

As a consequence, the inmate polices himself for fear of punishment."


"It wasn’t until the Snowden leaks that the scale of NSA and GCHQ operations became known. This arguably makes the system more panoptic post-Snowden, when we are aware of it, but it hasn’t been the official rhetoric. The original emphasis, and still the emphasis today, hasn’t been on correcting behaviour but on providing security, namely from terrorists"

Hence the major effect of the Panopticon: to induce in the inmate a state of conscious and permanent visibility that
assures the automatic functioning of power. So to arrange things that the surveillance is permanent in its effects, even if
it is discontinuous in its action; that the perfection of power should tend to render its actual exercise unnecessary; that
this architectural apparatus should be a machine for creating and sustaining a power relation independent of the person
who exercises it; in short, that the inmates should be caught up in a power situation of which they are themselves the
bearers. To achieve this, it is at once too much and too little that the prisoner should be constantly observed by an
inspector: too little, for what matters is that he knows himself to be observed; too much, because he has no need in fact
of being so. In view of this, Bentham laid down the principle that power should be visible and unverifiable.
