"So what does “reverse engineering” mean? What kind of things can be reverse
engineered? What assumptions does reverse engineering make about its
objects? Like any frame, reverse engineering constrains as well as enables the
presentation of certain stories. I want to suggest here that, while reverse
engineering might be a useful strategy for figuring out how an existing
technology works, it is less useful for telling us how it came to work that way.
Because reverse engineering starts from a finished technical object, it misses
the accidents that happened along the way—the abandoned paths, the
unusual stories behind features that made it to release, moments of
interpretation, arbitrary choice, and failure. Decisions that seemed rather
uncertain and subjective as they were being made come to appear necessary
in retrospect. Engineering looks a lot diferent in reverse."


"Paycheck illustrates a very popular way of thinking about engineering
knowledge. To know about something is to know the facts about how it
works. These facts are like physical objects—they can be hidden (inside of
technologies, corporations, envelopes, or brains), and they can be retrieved
and moved around. In this way of thinking about knowledge, facts that we
don’t yet know are typically hidden on the other side of some barrier. To
know through reverse engineering is to know by trying to pull those preexisting
facts out."

"Although structuralism sounds like a fairly technical way to analyze cultural
material, it is not, strictly speaking, objective. When you break an object down
into its parts and put it back together again, you have not simply copied it—
you’ve made something new. A movie’s set of microtags, no matter how finegrained,
is not the same thing as the movie. It is, as Barthes writes, a
“directed, interested simulacrum” of the movie, a re-creation made with
particular goals in mind. If you had diferent goals—diferent ideas about
what the significant parts of movies were, diferent imagined use-cases—you
might decompose diferently. There is more than one way to tear apart
content."
